\keywords{declarative, nix, nixos, pomdp, security, queries}
\keywordsen{declarative, nix, nixos, pomdp, security, queries}
\begin{abstract}

Embedded devices are an integral part of our everyday lives; household
machines, automotives, and thermal sensors make use of embedded
devices. They are subject to the global, developing
worlds security problems. This thesis focuses on those found in
public information screens. Embedded devices are particularly
vulnerable to security problems as they have challenges receiving
constant, reliable updates. This thesis' focal point is maintaining,
updating and upgrading embedded devices in a public setting. A
proposed architecture of a public media screen system is provided with example snippets to cover most of common
security issues found in similar setups. The architecture with its
content is then evaluated through with QuERIES methodology. The
central theme of this thesis is NixOS, which is a Linux distribution
that forms itself from a set of configuration files, supporting
features like atomic rollbacks and reliable dependency handling. Most
definitive academic sources in this particular subject by Eelco Dostra
are used extensively, as well as papers regarding both embedded
security and measuring security. Ideas for further study are
presented, as security problems may arise in our everyday lives due to
the more mainstream paradigms and could be avoided with the use of
declarative ones.

\end{abstract}
